# QuadFormer: Quadruple Transformer for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation in Power Line Segmentation of Aerial Images

## Abstract
>Accurate segmentation of power lines (PLs) in aerial images is essential to ensure the flight safety of UAVs. As acquiring high-quality ground truth annotations for training a deep learning model is a costly process and the inherent geometric structure of PLs is very thin, PL segmentation is a difficult task. While a model can be trained with synthetic data and adapted to unlabeled real images, there exists a large domain gap between the two distributions. Context dependency is important for scene understanding. Recent approaches on self-training have achieved remarkable performance in unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) for segmentation which trains the model with the pseudo labels on the unlabeled real images. However, these approaches fail to consider context dependency. Moreover, transferring contextual information across two distributions remains unexplored. Motivated by this, we propose QuadFormer, a novel UDA framework designed for semantic segmentation. The key idea is to leverage cross-domain context dependencies to online denoise the pseudo labels and enhance the transferability of vision transformers. The four-branch transformer combines cross-attention and self-attention at multiple levels for learning domain-invariant feature representations. Additionally, to further research in power line segmentation, we present two datasets - 1) ARPLSyn dataset and 2) ARPLReal dataset. There are 7000 and 4000 images respectively with high-quality PL segmentation annotations. We provide baselines for the PL segmentation task on both datasets. Furthermore, extensive experiments indicate that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance for the domain adaptive power line segmentation on ARPLSyn$\rightarrow${ARPLReal} and ARPLSyn$\rightarrow${TTPLA}.
